---
layout:     post
title:      "San Francisco"
subtitle:   "...sunshine doesn't evaporate, it gets drowned."
active: journal
author: David
image:
  feature: "goldengate.jpg"
date:       2024-11-22
header-img: "img/postcover/goldengate.jpg"
tags: 
categories: USA
comments: true
class: img-lighten 
opacity: 0.5
photocredit:
---

All the way from Virginia to southern California we'd had sunshine and blue skies, Maybe sometimes too blue and too 'sunshiney', but we had no complaints. Of course there was the snow in Santa Fe which a fun surprise. Even Sequoia and Yosemite had graced us with, at the very least some fine weather and some clouds to add drama.

San Fransisco we'd driven to in the sunshine and woke up next morning in the rain. When we left three days later in was still raining. In fact all the way up the road to Santa Rosa was some of the worst rainy weather I've driven in, and it was still raining next morning.

Sanata Rosa was less that two hours from San Fransisco, but since there was a National car rental place there were we could finally sort out our rental - that was the place.

After all, there was the wonderful 'Sonoma Coast State Park'. We could spend the day exploring that first and then have a night in Santa Rosa and sort out our rental next morning.

We can verify that The Sonoma Coast State Park in the rain is pish.

We tried, but we eventually turned around and headed for Santa Rosa, booked into an 'over budget' motel and went to 'Trader Joes' to spend extravagantly on our food for the next few days. 

Having eaten and drunk (in my case-got drunk!), we set about planning our exit and our goal of travelling the whole of the coastal route through northern California and Oregon.

It looked like shite, the road was closed somewhere around somewhere we hadn't ever heard of.

You should always listen to the advisories, but then they are only about today. 

We were travelling tomorrow.







