---
layout:     post
title:      "Bangkok"
subtitle:   "a refreshing change"
active: journal
author: David
image:
  feature: "bangkok.jpg"
date:       2024-02-09
header-img: "img/postcover/bangkok.jpg"
tags: Thailand, SE Asia
categories: 
comments: true
class: img-lighten 
opacity: 0.5
photocredit:
---

On the morning after writing my last post in Goa, I woke up thinking of home, specifically of going home. It was a fleeting, but disconcerting thought. Our departure from Glasgow seemed an age ago, but actually our adventure had only just begun. However, we could not escape that something was coming to an end and perhaps we condition ourselves to think that holidays end with going home. For us, we will have to adjust to the fact that every 'end' is a new beginning. That fleeting thought of home passed and the reality of our 'new beginning' was easy to adjust to.

Welcome to Bangkok. Although it is another seething metroplis like Delhi, it is so unlike Delhi. All of the roads are surfaced and all are clean. There is still a lot of traffic, but a real sense of order. As much as we loved our time in India, this was a welcome change.

As soon as we left the plane we knew we had come further south, the heat was intense. Our hotel was a welcome surprise and for the first time we welcomed our air conditioning. Until now we'd always used fans, but in this heat you'd just be pushing hot air around.

We are here for four nights. On Monday we get the train to Chang Mai in the north. For SE Asia we had only booked these nights for our arrival, we wanted the 7-8 weeks to be nothing like India where we were always being chased around by our itinerary. As a consequence of that decision, however, the best we could do for the trip to Change Mai was a seat in a second class car with fans on a fourteen hour overnight trip, but I'm sure it won't be as epic as India rail.







