---
layout:     post
title:      "On the road again"
subtitle:   "...in our own back garden (almost!)."
active: journal
author: David
image:
  feature: "frenchcottage.jpg"
date:       2025-05-30
header-img: "img/postcover/frenchcottage.jpg"
tags: 
categories: France 
comments: true
class: img-lighten 
opacity: 0.5
photocredit:
---

It's hard to describe my time back home, it was as if I'd decided not to have any feelings about it. I certainly didn't admit to any. Our home is comfortable and we soon found our place back among our friends, but there was a certain agitation.

We had thought about going to Shetland this year yet somehow we started to plan this trip. Somehow 'The Pyrenees' had lodged itself in my brain. I cannot tell you how it got lodged in there, but as soon as we started to look at it, planning it became inevitable. 

Our plan is very fluid and built around visiting our friend Louise in Brittany (cottage above), seeing Guiseppe and Paula in Milano sometime towards the end of June and meeting up with our two in Switzerland for a week from the 26th of July. After that we'll slowly make our way home, arriving sometime around the middle of August.

When we leave here we'll travel down the Atlantic coast to Bilbao, no fixed plans - just see stop when we please and hug the coast as best we can. It's now our habit to start looking for somewhere to stop at around 3pm, any later and you're tempted to stop at the first place you see and then inevitably find in the morning that there was a much better place an hour from where you'd stopped. I know it's not really rational, but trust me - it is based upon precedent.

From Bilbao it's along the length of the Pyrenees to the Mediterranean a slow and winding journey in which each day we'll stop at the first place we see in another quest to purge our travels of any residual irrationality. 

For the Mediterranean to Milan - who knows? 

Hopefully Guiseppe and Paula will knock some sense into us on how best to fill the gap in northern Italy before we head to the boys in Switzerland.




